Old Faithful is the name of a geyser
in Yellowstone National Park
in the United States.
The geyser was given this name
because of the relative
regularity of its eruptions.
Today, it erupts thousands of liters
or gallons of boiling water
about every 90 minutes on average.
After Old Faithful erupts,
the timing of its next eruption
can be predicted about 90 percent of the time
within a ten-minute variation.
And it’s not even the most
regular geyser in the park!
Isn’t that amazing?
It shouldn’t surprise us
that the word “faithful”
is applied to inanimate things,
since we see faithfulness
and dependability in creation.
For example, Psalm 89:37 describes the moon
“as a faithful witness in the skies”
because of its reliability.
Its appearance in the sky
follows a fixed pattern,
and it faithfully completes its orbit
around the earth
every 27.3 days.
While we admire faithfulness in creation,
we especially appreciate people who make
faithfulness their way of life.
Such individuals are reliable,
dependable, and trustworthy.
Let’s read about this quality of faithfulness
at 1 Corinthians 4:2:
“In this regard, what is expected of stewards
is that they be found faithful.”
The term “steward” can mean “house manager.”
His work could include
caring for his master’s business,
property, and other servants.
That’s a lot of responsibility!
But think of this:
A steward might have
many fine qualities and abilities.
Yet, none of them would matter
if he was irresponsible,
disloyal, and unfaithful to his master.
Faithfulness is essential
to be an effective and successful steward.
As true Christians, we must prove ourselves
faithful and trustworthy.
How does Jehovah feel about faithfulness?
The same way as King David did,
who wrote at Psalm 101:6:
“I will look
to the faithful ones of the earth,
so that they may dwell with me.”
Using a similar expression,
the prophet Jeremiah wrote the words
found at Jeremiah 5:3:
“O Jehovah, do your eyes
not look for faithfulness?”
And Psalm 37:3 encourages us
to “reside in the earth,
and act with faithfulness.”
So the theme of this month’s broadcast is
“Make Faithfulness Your Way of Life.”
We’ll examine two examples of faithfulness,
and then we’ll consider some practical ways
that we can prove ourselves faithful.
We began our discussion
by talking about the example of a geyser.
A geyser might be a fitting symbol
of the faithfulness of humans
because geysers continually erupt,
but they do so unpredictably.
So a geyser would be a poor representation
of the unchanging faithfulness
of our “faithful Creator,”
as Jehovah is described at 1 Peter 4:19.
The ever-present sun and moon
are more appropriate symbols
of the unchangeableness of his faithfulness.
In his words to the nation of Israel,
Moses stated, as found at Deuteronomy 32:4:
“The Rock, perfect is his activity,
for all his ways are justice.
A God of faithfulness who is never unjust.”
Did Jehovah prove faithful to that nation?
Of course he did.
When Moses spoke those words
to the Israelites,
they may have remembered
the time when Jehovah
had faithfully brought their forefathers
out of Egypt
and rescued them at the Red Sea.
He had faithfully preserved
millions of people alive
during the Israelites’ 40-year journey
in the wilderness.
And he had led them
to the border of the Promised Land.
Moses’ successor, Joshua,
also could testify to Jehovah’s faithfulness.
As a child growing up in Egypt,
Joshua must have
come to know of Jehovah’s promise
to give the Israelites a land of their own.
When the time came to enter that land,
Joshua was an eyewitness of how
Jehovah fought in behalf of His people.
Joshua saw
the walls of Jericho fall down flat.
He saw the sun stand still
until the Amorites could be routed.
In time,
one nation after another was defeated
because the faithful God
was fighting for Israel.
Once they defeated their enemies,
Joshua could say to the nation
what is recorded at Joshua 23:14:
“You well know with all your heart
and with all your soul
“that not one word
out of all the good promises
“that Jehovah your God has spoken
to you has failed.
“They have all come true for you.
Not one word of them has failed”
—“not one word.”
Joshua had seen that Jehovah
faithfully kept His promises.
Well, you can probably think of many other
examples of Jehovah’s faithfulness,
such as the fulfillment
of Messianic prophecies,
the fulfillment of the promise to feed
God’s people spiritually in our day
by means of “the faithful
and discreet slave,” and so on.
Jehovah sets the perfect example
for us in showing faithfulness.
The thought of making faithfulness
our way of life
can also be illustrated in the example
of the three Hebrew companions of Daniel.
When they were young,
Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah
set an excellent example of faithfulness
in what some people
may view as a small thing.
Do you remember how they were
pressured to eat unclean food?
Apparently, their faithful parents
must have instructed them
to adhere strictly to the dietary
restrictions found in the Mosaic Law.
Jehovah considered these so important
that after listing such restrictions,
he stated the words
recorded at Leviticus 11:45:
“You must be holy, because I am holy.”
The king of Babylon assigned
the three Hebrew youths and other young men
“a daily ration from [his] delicacies,”
among which were foods forbidden by the Law.
The three Hebrews could have reasoned
that the dietary restrictions
of the Mosaic Law
were not so important,
at least not when compared
to the Ten Commandments.
But no, those faithful youths were concerned
with living up to all features of God’s Law.
They determined not to pollute
themselves with such food
and requested to eat vegetables.
The matter of which tasted better
was of no concern to them
in this important decision.
Daniel asked that they be permitted
to try out this diet for ten days.
The result?
At the end of the ten days,
Jehovah blessed those young men
for their faithfulness.
They looked ‘better and healthier
than any of the other youths’!
Was the choice of food a small thing?
Not to Jehovah!
It was of serious concern to him,
and the young Hebrews
had his view of the matter.
Their faithfulness in what
may have seemed a small thing
prepared them
for a bigger trial in the future.
Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah
had already established a pattern
of making faithfulness their way of life
when King Nebuchadnezzar ordered them
to bow before an image of gold
on the plains of Dura.
In faithfulness to Jehovah, they refused.
And they made that decision despite knowing
that it would result in their being
thrown into a fiery furnace.
As we read their words to the king,
as recorded at Daniel 3:17, 18,
see if you can sense their faithfulness:
“If it must be,
“our God whom we serve is able to rescue us
“from the burning fiery furnace, O king,
“and to rescue us from your hand.
“But even if he does not,
“let it be known to you, O king,
“that we will not serve your gods
or worship the image of gold
that you have set up.”
That courageous stand resulted
in their being thrown into the furnace.
But as we know, Jehovah rescued them.
What an outstanding witness they provided
not only to the king and his court
but also to all those
who through the centuries
have read about that account
in the book of Daniel!
The three Hebrews
looked to Jehovah as their Sovereign,
and they proved themselves faithful
in both large and small matters.
Well, how can we imitate Jehovah
and the three Hebrews
so that we too can make
faithfulness our way of life?
Jesus’ statement recorded
at Luke 16:10 can help.
He said:
“The person faithful in what is least
is faithful also in much.”
Those words uttered almost 2,000 years ago
are still as true as ever.
Now, it may be that you’ll never be asked
to take a stand that demonstrates
what some might view
as outstanding faithfulness,
as was shown by the three Hebrews
when they didn’t bow down to the image.
But your constancy in doing what is right
and your reliability and dependability
in small things
give evidence of your deep appreciation
for what it means to be faithful.
Psalm 31:23 assures us
that “Jehovah protects the faithful,”
and this is true even when
we’re faithful in seemingly small matters.
There are many areas of our lives
in which we need
to display faithfulness to Jehovah
—for example, having a regular share
in the ministry each month
and reporting our participation.
Faithfulness to our marriage mate
is very important to Jehovah.
How about showing our faithfulness
by staying neutral
with regard to the political
and social conflicts of the world?
Do we make faithfulness our way of life
when it comes
to our personal conduct each day?
During a personal study session
or family worship,
why not consider how you can continue
to be faithful in these areas?
And what about you young ones?
We’re so proud of you when you prove
your faithfulness to Jehovah.
We know that many of you
face tests of your faith
that involve the pressure
to engage in immorality
and in other forms of bad behavior.
It’s one thing to know what to do
or what choice you should make
but quite another to have the courage
to do what is right
when you’re under pressure or temptation.
The three Hebrews could have concluded
that they could get away with eating
the food God’s Law prohibited,
since they were far away
from their parents and friends.
They could also have reasoned
that it was the king’s order,
so they had no choice
but to do what they were told.
Besides, other youths may have
readily accepted the food arrangements
and viewed it as a privilege.
But the Hebrew youths knew that,
as mentioned at Proverbs 15:3:
“The eyes of Jehovah are everywhere.”
Those youths
were determined to remain faithful.
Young ones,
if you learn to deal successfully with trials
that some may view as small things,
then you’ll be able to face
bigger tests of your faith.
Never forget
that the benefits of faithfulness
far outweigh any temporary relief
that comes from compromising.
Let’s consider one more area
that involves faithfulness:
our dress and grooming.
How glad we were to learn
in the 2024 Governing Body Update #2
of the adjustments to our standard of dress
at theocratic events and in the ministry!
We commend you brothers and sisters
for wanting to dress and be groomed
in a dignified way on those occasions.
But how can we show our faithfulness
in our selection of clothing
during our leisure time, when on vacation,
or when at social gatherings
with our fellow Christians?
First Timothy 2:9, 10
admonishes our Christian sisters
to “adorn themselves in appropriate dress,
“with modesty and soundness of mind, . . .
in the way that is proper
for women professing devotion to God.”
Of course, the principle of modesty
applies to Christian brothers too.
Also, 2 Corinthians 6:3, 4 states
that “in no way are we giving
any cause for stumbling,
“so that no fault
may be found with our ministry;
“but in every way we recommend ourselves
as God’s ministers.”
“In every way” includes
our choice of dress and grooming.
An article entitled
“Are You Faithful in All Things?”
in the July 15, 2005,
issue of The Watchtower  states this:
“Our dress needs
to be practical and presentable.
“This serves as a witness to others
who observe us. . . .
“In fact, we should always
be appropriately attired.
“To some,
faithfulness in the choice of clothing
“may seem to be a small matter,
but in God’s eyes it is important.”
We should remember this when it comes
to our choice of dress and grooming.
Well, what will you remember
from this consideration?
Most of us admire faithfulness in creation.
However, we especially appreciate people
who have made faithfulness their way of life.
We have outstanding examples of faithfulness
recorded in the Bible that we can imitate,
such as Jehovah,
the three Hebrews, and many others.
The principle found at Luke 16:10
can help us to be faithful
not only in large matters
but also in what some may regard
as small matters.
Brothers and sisters, we encourage you
to continue to prove
your faithfulness to Jehovah.
As noted at Proverbs 28:20:
“A faithful man will receive many blessings.”
Of course,
our main reason for being faithful is,
not because of what we get out of it,
but because of our love for Jehovah.
And we can be sure that Jehovah
will continue to bless us richly
if we make faithfulness our way of life.